About CMH-17 Search Search Search Login HOME View HOME About CMH-17 Organization Polymer Matrix Ceramic Matrix Additive Manufacturing FAQ Awards History of CMH-17 RESOURCES View RESOURCES Purchase Handbook Related Documents Software Statistics Software Data Submittal Education User's Guide Links MEETINGS View MEETINGS Joint Spring 2026 Coordination Meeting Tutorial Documents Contacts PMC View PMC PMC Coordination Group Crashworthiness Data Review Design Durability and Damage Tolerance Guidelines Materials and Processes Safety Management Sandwich Supportability Testing CMC View CMC Coordination Data Review Design and Analysis Materials and Processes Testing AM View AM AM Coordination Data Review Design and Analysis Guidelines M & P Statistics Testing Joint Working Groups View Joint Working Groups Engine Applications Guidelines Spacecraft Statistics Login HOME View HOME About CMH-17 Organization Polymer Matrix Ceramic Matrix Additive Manufacturing FAQ Awards History of CMH-17 RESOURCES View RESOURCES Purchase Handbook Related Documents Software Statistics Software Data Submittal Education User's Guide Links MEETINGS View MEETINGS Joint Spring 2026 Coordination Meeting Tutorial Documents Contacts PMC View PMC PMC Coordination Group Crashworthiness Data Review Design Durability and Damage Tolerance Guidelines Materials and Processes Safety Management Sandwich Supportability Testing CMC View CMC Coordination Data Review Design and Analysis Materials and Processes Testing AM View AM AM Coordination Data Review Design and Analysis Guidelines M & P Statistics Testing Joint Working Groups View Joint Working Groups Engine Applications Guidelines Spacecraft Statistics Composite Materials Handbook-17 Learn More Please email info@cmh17.org to request membership and website access. Upcoming Meetings Fall Coordination Meeting will be announced soon! Virtual Current Ballots Joint Yellow Page Cycle (Spring 2026 YP1) (06/19/2026 - 07/31/2026) (OPEN) AM Vol 7 Sections Volume 7, Section 1.8 Volume 7, Section 1.9 Volume 7, Chapter 4 Volume 7, Chapter 5 Volume 7, Section 6.5 Volume 7, Section 8.2.4 Volume 7, Section 8.2.7.4 Volume 7, Section 8.3.1.1.1 Volume 7, Section 8.7 Volume 7, Section 14 PMC Sections Volume 1, Section 8.4.4.4 Volume 2, Section 1.6-1.7 Volume 3, Section 14.12.11 Volume 6, Section 2.1-2.3 Recently Held Meetings and Procedings CMH-17 Spring Joint Coordination Meeting Date(s): May 11th-15th, 2026 Format: In-Person Meeting Proceedings located here CMH-17 Fall Joint Coordination Meeting Date(s): Oct 28th-30th,Nov 4th-6th 2025 Format: Virtual Meeting Proceedings located here Feedback Tutorial Feedback Survery Joint Meeting Feedback Survery About CMH-17 The Composite Materials Handbook-17 (CMH-17) provides information and guidance necessary to design and fabricate end items from composite materials. Its primary purpose is the standardization of engineering data development methodologies related to testing, data reduction, and data reporting of property data for current and emerging composite materials. In support of this objective, the handbook includes composite materials properties that meet specific data requirements. The Handbook therefore constitutes an overview of the field of composites technology and engineering, an area which is advancing and changing rapidly. As a result, the document is constantly changing as sections are added or modified to reflect advances in the state-of-the-art. Mission Composite Materials Handbook creates, publishes and maintains proven, reliable engineering information and standards, subjected to thorough technical review, to support the development and use of composite materials and structures. Vision Composite Materials Handbook will be the authoritative worldwide focal point for technical information on composite materials and structures. Goals and Objectives Periodically meet with experts from the field to discuss critical technical issues for composite structural applications, with an emphasis on increasing overall product safety. Provide comprehensive, practical engineering guidance that has proven reliable for the design, fabrication, characterization, test and maintenance of composites. Provide reliable data, linked to control of processes and raw materials, thereby being a comprehensive source of material property basis values and design information that can be shared within the industry Provide a resource for composites education with examples, applications and references to supporting engineering work. Establish guidelines for use of information, identifying the limitations of the data and methods. Provide guidelines with references to proven standards & engineering practices. Provide for periodic updates to maintain the all-inclusive nature of the information. Provide information in formats best-suited for user needs. Serve the needs of the international composite community through member industries represented, which use teamwork and the diverse member engineering skills to provide information for the hand. Please email info@cmh17.org to request membership and website access.
