Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact - Queen's University Belfast Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Queen's University Belfast Home Help & FAQ Link opens in a new tab Search content at Queen's University Belfast Home Profiles Research units Research output Projects Impacts Datasets Activities Prizes Press/Media Student theses Equipment Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact Aidan Hawkins * , Ali Aravand , Scott Millen , Stephen W. Tsai * Corresponding author for this work School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Research output : Contribution to conference › Paper › peer-review 71 Downloads (Pure) Overview Fingerprint Projects (1) Student theses (1) Abstract Double-Double (DD) laminates are a new layup design approach which seeks to address the limitations of quad laminates. First proposed by Tsai et al. in 2017 [1], DD simplifies the design of composite structures, reduces manufacturing complexity and allows for simplistic and rapid thickness tapering, presenting substantial prospects for structural mass reduction. DD laminates are made up of building blocks or sub-laminates, composed of two sets of bi-angled plies, as depicted in Figure 1. These sub-laminate building blocks are repeatedly stacked to reach through thickness homogenisation of the laminate. Homogenisation of a laminate is defined by [ATr] ≈ [DTr] and [Bn] ≈ 0, where n indicates thickness normalised terms. Existing homogenisation criteria [2] for DD laminates lack experimental validation, leading to warpage in some instances. This work proposes improved and experimentally validated homogenisation criteria, aiming to mitigate warpage in these asymmetric laminates. Additionally, two new DD stacking sequence approaches, termed Symmetry-Enhanced Double-Double (SEDD) laminates are introduced. SEDD laminates are shown to have the capability to produce warpage-free panels using a reduced number of sub-laminate repeats, while maintaining the benefits of the traditional DD method. Homogenisation grids explicitly define the minimum required sub-laminate repetitions and arrangement of angles within the DD sub-laminate, for any combination of DD angles. An example of which is given in Figure 2. These grids are independent of the CFRP material system, as they are based on master ply values [3], and are generated based on predefined homogenisation criteria e.g. |DTr* - An*| < 0.02 & BTr* < 0.01. Laminates manufactured per this updated homogenisation criteria have exhibited zero or negligible warpage. The standard DD building block, comprising four plies [±Ф°, ±Ѱ°], is theoretically capable of matching the stiffness properties of any quad laminate that contains <50% 0° plies. The absence of experimental data validating the theoretical predictions for stiffness and strength in DD laminates constitutes a critical gap in the knowledge. Additionally, this research seeks to explore the potential of extended DD sub-laminates, featuring additional 0°, 90° or ± Ф° plies, to broaden the attainable stiffness and strength range for DD laminates. A framework to convert any CFRP laminate to a DD sub-laminate has been developed. This framework integrates closed-form solutions for the standard 4-ply sub-laminate and the three extended DD laminates aforementioned. An optimisation branch has been incorporated to address conversions without a direct solution. The ongoing validation process involves mechanically characterising both quad and corresponding DD laminates to assess the efficacy of the framework for both in-plane and out-of-plane properties. Open-hole tensile and compressive tests have been performed, enabling the comparison of quad and DD laminates under more complex and industrially relevant conditions. Low-Velocity Impact (LVI) response and Compression After Impact (CAI) strength of DD laminates remain areas of limited understanding. This work aims to assess and compare the LVI damage and CAI strength of quad laminates against their corresponding DD laminates, tailored to match the in-plane or bending stiffness properties. Several laminate stacking sequences are to be assessed, including soft, quasi-isotropic and hard laminates. C-scan ultrasonic Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) was carried out post-impact to assess the delamination within laminates. Two synchronised cameras were used to record the specimen during CAI testing, with Digital Image Correlation (DIC) subsequently preformed. Original language English Pages 2138-2185 Publication status Published - 24 Jul 2025 Event 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025 - Baltimore Convention Center, Baltimore, United States Duration: 04 Aug 2025 → 08 Aug 2025 Conference Conference 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025 Abbreviated title ICCM24 Country/Territory United States City Baltimore Period 04/08/2025 → 08/08/2025 Fingerprint Dive into the research topics of 'Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact'. Together they form a unique fingerprint. Building Block Engineering 100% Mechanical Performance Engineering 100% Homogenization Material Science 100% Stiffness Property Engineering 66% Impact Strength Engineering 66% Rigidity Engineering 66% Material System Engineering 33% Simplifies Engineering 33% View full fingerprint Projects 1 Active Projects per year R5256MEE: Novel layup optimisation methods in design and manufacture of advanced fibre-reinforced laminated composites Aravand, A. (PI) 16/02/2023 → … Project : Research Mechanical Performance 100% Open Hole 77% Building Block 72% Homogenization 66% Stiffness Property 55% Student theses Advancing double-double composite laminates as next-generation alternatives to traditional quad laminates Hawkins, A. (Author), Aravand, A. (Supervisor) & Millen, S. (Supervisor), Jul 2026 Student thesis : Doctoral Thesis › Thesis with Publications Cite this APA Author BIBTEX Harvard Standard RIS Vancouver Hawkins, A. , Aravand, A. , Millen, S. , & Tsai, S. W. (2025). Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact . 2138-2185. Paper presented at 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025, Baltimore, United States. Hawkins, Aidan ; Aravand, Ali ; Millen, Scott et al. / Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact . Paper presented at 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025, Baltimore, United States. @conference{8c17ecf934e148c8980bf5b09063c212, title = "Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact", abstract = "Double-Double (DD) laminates are a new layup design approach which seeks to address the limitations of quad laminates. First proposed by Tsai et al. in 2017 [1], DD simplifies the design of composite structures, reduces manufacturing complexity and allows for simplistic and rapid thickness tapering, presenting substantial prospects for structural mass reduction. DD laminates are made up of building blocks or sub-laminates, composed of two sets of bi-angled plies, as depicted in Figure 1. These sub-laminate building blocks are repeatedly stacked to reach through thickness homogenisation of the laminate. Homogenisation of a laminate is defined by [ATr] ≈ [DTr] and [Bn] ≈ 0, where n indicates thickness normalised terms. Existing homogenisation criteria [2] for DD laminates lack experimental validation, leading to warpage in some instances. This work proposes improved and experimentally validated homogenisation criteria, aiming to mitigate warpage in these asymmetric laminates. Additionally, two new DD stacking sequence approaches, termed Symmetry-Enhanced Double-Double (SEDD) laminates are introduced. SEDD laminates are shown to have the capability to produce warpage-free panels using a reduced number of sub-laminate repeats, while maintaining the benefits of the traditional DD method. Homogenisation grids explicitly define the minimum required sub-laminate repetitions and arrangement of angles within the DD sub-laminate, for any combination of DD angles. An example of which is given in Figure 2. These grids are independent of the CFRP material system, as they are based on master ply values [3], and are generated based on predefined homogenisation criteria e.g. |DTr* - An*| < 0.02 \& BTr* < 0.01. Laminates manufactured per this updated homogenisation criteria have exhibited zero or negligible warpage. The standard DD building block, comprising four plies [±Ф°, ±Ѱ°], is theoretically capable of matching the stiffness properties of any quad laminate that contains <50\% 0° plies. The absence of experimental data validating the theoretical predictions for stiffness and strength in DD laminates constitutes a critical gap in the knowledge. Additionally, this research seeks to explore the potential of extended DD sub-laminates, featuring additional 0°, 90° or ± Ф° plies, to broaden the attainable stiffness and strength range for DD laminates. A framework to convert any CFRP laminate to a DD sub-laminate has been developed. This framework integrates closed-form solutions for the standard 4-ply sub-laminate and the three extended DD laminates aforementioned. An optimisation branch has been incorporated to address conversions without a direct solution. The ongoing validation process involves mechanically characterising both quad and corresponding DD laminates to assess the efficacy of the framework for both in-plane and out-of-plane properties. Open-hole tensile and compressive tests have been performed, enabling the comparison of quad and DD laminates under more complex and industrially relevant conditions. Low-Velocity Impact (LVI) response and Compression After Impact (CAI) strength of DD laminates remain areas of limited understanding. This work aims to assess and compare the LVI damage and CAI strength of quad laminates against their corresponding DD laminates, tailored to match the in-plane or bending stiffness properties. Several laminate stacking sequences are to be assessed, including soft, quasi-isotropic and hard laminates. C-scan ultrasonic Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) was carried out post-impact to assess the delamination within laminates. Two synchronised cameras were used to record the specimen during CAI testing, with Digital Image Correlation (DIC) subsequently preformed. ", author = "Aidan Hawkins and Ali Aravand and Scott Millen and Tsai, \{Stephen W.\}", year = "2025", month = jul, day = "24", language = "English", pages = "2138--2185", note = "24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025, ICCM24 ; Conference date: 04-08-2025 Through 08-08-2025", } Hawkins, A , Aravand, A , Millen, S & Tsai, SW 2025, ' Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact ', Paper presented at 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025, Baltimore, United States, 04/08/2025 - 08/08/2025 pp. 2138-2185. Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact. / Hawkins, Aidan ; Aravand, Ali ; Millen, Scott et al. 2025. 2138-2185 Paper presented at 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025, Baltimore, United States. Research output : Contribution to conference › Paper › peer-review TY - CONF T1 - Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact AU - Hawkins, Aidan AU - Aravand, Ali AU - Millen, Scott AU - Tsai, Stephen W. PY - 2025/7/24 Y1 - 2025/7/24 N2 - Double-Double (DD) laminates are a new layup design approach which seeks to address the limitations of quad laminates. First proposed by Tsai et al. in 2017 [1], DD simplifies the design of composite structures, reduces manufacturing complexity and allows for simplistic and rapid thickness tapering, presenting substantial prospects for structural mass reduction. DD laminates are made up of building blocks or sub-laminates, composed of two sets of bi-angled plies, as depicted in Figure 1. These sub-laminate building blocks are repeatedly stacked to reach through thickness homogenisation of the laminate. Homogenisation of a laminate is defined by [ATr] ≈ [DTr] and [Bn] ≈ 0, where n indicates thickness normalised terms. Existing homogenisation criteria [2] for DD laminates lack experimental validation, leading to warpage in some instances. This work proposes improved and experimentally validated homogenisation criteria, aiming to mitigate warpage in these asymmetric laminates. Additionally, two new DD stacking sequence approaches, termed Symmetry-Enhanced Double-Double (SEDD) laminates are introduced. SEDD laminates are shown to have the capability to produce warpage-free panels using a reduced number of sub-laminate repeats, while maintaining the benefits of the traditional DD method. Homogenisation grids explicitly define the minimum required sub-laminate repetitions and arrangement of angles within the DD sub-laminate, for any combination of DD angles. An example of which is given in Figure 2. These grids are independent of the CFRP material system, as they are based on master ply values [3], and are generated based on predefined homogenisation criteria e.g. |DTr* - An*| < 0.02 & BTr* < 0.01. Laminates manufactured per this updated homogenisation criteria have exhibited zero or negligible warpage. The standard DD building block, comprising four plies [±Ф°, ±Ѱ°], is theoretically capable of matching the stiffness properties of any quad laminate that contains <50% 0° plies. The absence of experimental data validating the theoretical predictions for stiffness and strength in DD laminates constitutes a critical gap in the knowledge. Additionally, this research seeks to explore the potential of extended DD sub-laminates, featuring additional 0°, 90° or ± Ф° plies, to broaden the attainable stiffness and strength range for DD laminates. A framework to convert any CFRP laminate to a DD sub-laminate has been developed. This framework integrates closed-form solutions for the standard 4-ply sub-laminate and the three extended DD laminates aforementioned. An optimisation branch has been incorporated to address conversions without a direct solution. The ongoing validation process involves mechanically characterising both quad and corresponding DD laminates to assess the efficacy of the framework for both in-plane and out-of-plane properties. Open-hole tensile and compressive tests have been performed, enabling the comparison of quad and DD laminates under more complex and industrially relevant conditions. Low-Velocity Impact (LVI) response and Compression After Impact (CAI) strength of DD laminates remain areas of limited understanding. This work aims to assess and compare the LVI damage and CAI strength of quad laminates against their corresponding DD laminates, tailored to match the in-plane or bending stiffness properties. Several laminate stacking sequences are to be assessed, including soft, quasi-isotropic and hard laminates. C-scan ultrasonic Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) was carried out post-impact to assess the delamination within laminates. Two synchronised cameras were used to record the specimen during CAI testing, with Digital Image Correlation (DIC) subsequently preformed. AB - Double-Double (DD) laminates are a new layup design approach which seeks to address the limitations of quad laminates. First proposed by Tsai et al. in 2017 [1], DD simplifies the design of composite structures, reduces manufacturing complexity and allows for simplistic and rapid thickness tapering, presenting substantial prospects for structural mass reduction. DD laminates are made up of building blocks or sub-laminates, composed of two sets of bi-angled plies, as depicted in Figure 1. These sub-laminate building blocks are repeatedly stacked to reach through thickness homogenisation of the laminate. Homogenisation of a laminate is defined by [ATr] ≈ [DTr] and [Bn] ≈ 0, where n indicates thickness normalised terms. Existing homogenisation criteria [2] for DD laminates lack experimental validation, leading to warpage in some instances. This work proposes improved and experimentally validated homogenisation criteria, aiming to mitigate warpage in these asymmetric laminates. Additionally, two new DD stacking sequence approaches, termed Symmetry-Enhanced Double-Double (SEDD) laminates are introduced. SEDD laminates are shown to have the capability to produce warpage-free panels using a reduced number of sub-laminate repeats, while maintaining the benefits of the traditional DD method. Homogenisation grids explicitly define the minimum required sub-laminate repetitions and arrangement of angles within the DD sub-laminate, for any combination of DD angles. An example of which is given in Figure 2. These grids are independent of the CFRP material system, as they are based on master ply values [3], and are generated based on predefined homogenisation criteria e.g. |DTr* - An*| < 0.02 & BTr* < 0.01. Laminates manufactured per this updated homogenisation criteria have exhibited zero or negligible warpage. The standard DD building block, comprising four plies [±Ф°, ±Ѱ°], is theoretically capable of matching the stiffness properties of any quad laminate that contains <50% 0° plies. The absence of experimental data validating the theoretical predictions for stiffness and strength in DD laminates constitutes a critical gap in the knowledge. Additionally, this research seeks to explore the potential of extended DD sub-laminates, featuring additional 0°, 90° or ± Ф° plies, to broaden the attainable stiffness and strength range for DD laminates. A framework to convert any CFRP laminate to a DD sub-laminate has been developed. This framework integrates closed-form solutions for the standard 4-ply sub-laminate and the three extended DD laminates aforementioned. An optimisation branch has been incorporated to address conversions without a direct solution. The ongoing validation process involves mechanically characterising both quad and corresponding DD laminates to assess the efficacy of the framework for both in-plane and out-of-plane properties. Open-hole tensile and compressive tests have been performed, enabling the comparison of quad and DD laminates under more complex and industrially relevant conditions. Low-Velocity Impact (LVI) response and Compression After Impact (CAI) strength of DD laminates remain areas of limited understanding. This work aims to assess and compare the LVI damage and CAI strength of quad laminates against their corresponding DD laminates, tailored to match the in-plane or bending stiffness properties. Several laminate stacking sequences are to be assessed, including soft, quasi-isotropic and hard laminates. C-scan ultrasonic Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) was carried out post-impact to assess the delamination within laminates. Two synchronised cameras were used to record the specimen during CAI testing, with Digital Image Correlation (DIC) subsequently preformed. M3 - Paper SP - 2138 EP - 2185 T2 - 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025 Y2 - 4 August 2025 through 8 August 2025 ER - Hawkins A , Aravand A , Millen S , Tsai SW. Double-Double (DD) laminates: homogenisation, mechanical performance and compression after impact . 2025. Paper presented at 24th International Conference on Composite Materials 2025, Baltimore, United States. Powered by Pure Link opens in a new tab , Scopus Link opens in a new tab & Elsevier Fingerprint Engine™ Link opens in a new tab All content on this site: Copyright © 2026 Queen's University Belfast, its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content. By continuing you agree to the use of cookies Log in to Pure Link opens in a new tab Queen's University Belfast data protection policy Link opens in a new tab About web accessibility Link opens in a new tab Report vulnerability Link opens in a new tab Contact us
