Double-Double Composite Laminates for Versatile Manufacturing | Explore Technologies Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University (link is external) Stanford Explore Technologies Main navigation Menu Technology Search Collections Stanford OTL Docket #: S17-103 Double-Double Composite Laminates for Versatile Manufacturing Stanford researchers led by Stephen Tsai are advancing a new, much simplified design approach for composite laminates – termed "double-double" – that can replace conventional laminates for lighter, tougher, and lower cost airplane structures among other uses. Whereas legacy quad laminates have remained static since their development in the 1960s and are becoming so complex that have added time and cost in their use. They are no longer optimal. Double-double laminates simplify optimization, leading to new structures with unmatched low weight and cost. As a result, the double-double composite structures can be designed and produced with tapers to save weight, to have ply drops on the exterior surface to remove defects from the interior, and 1-axis layup of multi-axial tape and fabric —in a customizable manner—meet requirements of many applications, from heavily loaded aircraft wings to sports products. Replacing legacy quad laminates with this technology opens up new frontiers. For example, it is possible to manufacture a fuselage, and wings in large pieces of structure, with fast layup, cured outside autoclave, with no fasteners, and easy to inspect and maintain. As other non-limiting examples, for rockets, pressure vessels, other structural forms including grid/skin as a special double-double, can also be designed and produced with ease, confidence and quality that can compete with metals A 21st century composite airplane in Otto Aviation's Celera 500L with extensive application of double-double (Image credit: the inventors) Related Technology Stanford docket S19-225 - Manufacturing of Composite Grid/Core/Skin Structures This invention describes a rib-stiffened, composite grid skin structure design, which is ultra-lightweight, stiff, strong, and easier and less expensive to manufacture. Stage of Development In addition to the progress summarized here, tools are available to help in the design of specific shapes while taking advantage of all the great features of double-double composites. In additional to Otto, there are three ongoing programs with major aerospace companies having components designed and prototype produced and tested per double-double technology to be completed before summer 2021. Applications To improve performance and quality, and reduce weight and cost of composites structures Aerospace/automotive components Advantages Double-double is a highly engineered fabric with 2 sets of angles of thin plies so multiple sheets can be stacked to form a homogeneous laminate like a piece of aluminum. (Quad cannot be made into multiaxial because it is too thick.) This laminate can be easily tapered to save weight and cost. A homogenized laminate with thin plies are delamination resistant and designed just like metals. Reduced minimum gage requirement opens up applications for components/devices not possible with thick sub-laminates in quad. Publications Bruno Vermes, Stephen W. Tsai, Aniello Riccio, Francesco Di Caprio, Surajit Roy, Application of the Tsai's modulus and double-double concepts to the definition of a new affordable design approach for composite laminates , Composite Structures, Volume 259, 2021,113246, ISSN 0263-8223. Tsai, Stephen W. "Double–Double: New Family of Composite Laminates." AIAA Journal 59.11 (2021): 4293-4305. Related Links Stephen Tsai's Stanford profile A new book on Double-Double: Free Download Patents Published Application: 20210114336 Issued: 11,446,897 (USA) Innovators Stephen Tsai Robert Rainsberger Licensing Contact David Mallin Licensing Manager, Physical Sciences Email Link to similar technologies Explore Similar Technologies Download Docket PDF Download PDF Similar Technologies Pre-Plied Double-Double (PPDD) Laminated Composite Tape with Short Fiber S25-117 Pre-Plied Double-Double (PPDD) Laminated Composite Tape with Short Fiber Revolutionary composites technology can reduce weight and cost by 50 percent S09-227 Revolutionary composites technology can reduce weight and cost by 50 percent Manufacturing of Composite Grid/Core/Skin Structures S19-225 Manufacturing of Composite Grid/Core/Skin Structures Explore similar technologies by keyword: Physical Science Materials Composite Aerospace/aviation Stanford Office of Technology Licensing Web Login Address 415 Broadway Street 2nd Floor Redwood City , CA 94063 United States Campus Map Contact Us Connect with us on Social Media! Related Links Industrial Contracts Office (ICO) Research at Stanford Stanford News Stanford University © The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University. If you want to use any portion of this copyrighted material, please contact us . SP OTL IGHT is a once-per-quarter email newsletter highlighting new technologies, research, OTL insights, and more. Sign up below by entering your email. Already signed up but missed a past issue? See our newsletter archive ! Stanford University Stanford Home (link is external) Maps & Directions (link is external) Search Stanford (link is external) Emergency Info (link is external) Terms of Use (link is external) Privacy (link is external) Copyright (link is external) Trademarks (link is external) Non-Discrimination (link is external) Accessibility (link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top
