Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates - Western Sydney University Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Western Sydney University Home Research Profiles Login Link opens in a new tab Search content at Western Sydney University Home Profiles Research outputs Projects Datasets HDR theses Activities Press/Media Prizes Subjects Research units Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates Stephen W. Tsai , Brian G. Falzon , Ali Aravand Western Sydney University Research output : Book/Research Report › Authored Book Overview Fingerprint Abstract The concept of "Double-Double" (DD) laminates facilitates homogenization, which can make mid-plane symmetry unnecessary. Moreover, single ply drops may be placed on exterior surfaces, mitigating interior defects. Laminates may be designed with little or no warpage, are easy to inspect and easy to repair. DD laminates are automatically balanced and dispense with the "ten percent rule". A single DD architecture can be optimized to serve an entire component, in contrast to multiple laminate stacking sequences and may be highly tapered, when transitioning to different thicknesses, to save weight and cost. Original language English Place of Publication U.S. Publisher Stanford University Number of pages 355 ISBN (Print) 9780981914343 Publication status Published - 2023 Access to Document https://web.stanford.edu/group/composites/ Other files and links Persistent Link Fingerprint Dive into the research topics of 'Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates'. Together they form a unique fingerprint. Homogenizing Physics 100% Warpage Physics 100% Composite Laminate Material Science 100% Homogenization Material Science 100% Symmetry Plane Engineering 100% View full fingerprint Cite this APA Author BIBTEX Harvard Standard RIS Vancouver Tsai, S. W. , Falzon, B. G. , & Aravand, A. (2023). Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates . Stanford University. https://web.stanford.edu/group/composites/ Tsai, Stephen W. ; Falzon, Brian G. ; Aravand, Ali. / Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates . U.S. : Stanford University, 2023. 355 p. @book{6c4c4aaf0dd647269e8900baaed0792e, title = "Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates", abstract = "The concept of {"}Double-Double{"} (DD) laminates facilitates homogenization, which can make mid-plane symmetry unnecessary. Moreover, single ply drops may be placed on exterior surfaces, mitigating interior defects. Laminates may be designed with little or no warpage, are easy to inspect and easy to repair. DD laminates are automatically balanced and dispense with the {"}ten percent rule{"}. A single DD architecture can be optimized to serve an entire component, in contrast to multiple laminate stacking sequences and may be highly tapered, when transitioning to different thicknesses, to save weight and cost.", author = "Tsai, \{Stephen W.\} and Falzon, \{Brian G.\} and Ali Aravand", year = "2023", language = "English", isbn = "9780981914343", publisher = "Stanford University", } Tsai, SW , Falzon, BG & Aravand, A 2023, Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates . Stanford University, U.S. < https://web.stanford.edu/group/composites/ > Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates. / Tsai, Stephen W. ; Falzon, Brian G. ; Aravand, Ali. U.S.: Stanford University, 2023. 355 p. Research output : Book/Research Report › Authored Book TY - BOOK T1 - Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates AU - Tsai, Stephen W. AU - Falzon, Brian G. AU - Aravand, Ali PY - 2023 Y1 - 2023 N2 - The concept of "Double-Double" (DD) laminates facilitates homogenization, which can make mid-plane symmetry unnecessary. Moreover, single ply drops may be placed on exterior surfaces, mitigating interior defects. Laminates may be designed with little or no warpage, are easy to inspect and easy to repair. DD laminates are automatically balanced and dispense with the "ten percent rule". A single DD architecture can be optimized to serve an entire component, in contrast to multiple laminate stacking sequences and may be highly tapered, when transitioning to different thicknesses, to save weight and cost. AB - The concept of "Double-Double" (DD) laminates facilitates homogenization, which can make mid-plane symmetry unnecessary. Moreover, single ply drops may be placed on exterior surfaces, mitigating interior defects. Laminates may be designed with little or no warpage, are easy to inspect and easy to repair. DD laminates are automatically balanced and dispense with the "ten percent rule". A single DD architecture can be optimized to serve an entire component, in contrast to multiple laminate stacking sequences and may be highly tapered, when transitioning to different thicknesses, to save weight and cost. UR - https://hdl.handle.net/1959.7/uws:75238 M3 - Authored Book SN - 9780981914343 BT - Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates PB - Stanford University CY - U.S. ER - Tsai SW , Falzon BG , Aravand A. Double-Double: Simplifying the Design and Manufacture of Composite Laminates . U.S.: Stanford University, 2023. 355 p. Powered by Pure Link opens in a new tab , Scopus Link opens in a new tab & Elsevier Fingerprint Engine™ Link opens in a new tab All content on this site: Copyright © 2026 Western Sydney University, its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content. By continuing you agree to the use of cookies Log in to Pure Link opens in a new tab Western Sydney University data protection policy Link opens in a new tab About web accessibility Link opens in a new tab Report vulnerability Link opens in a new tab
